# 9. New block

1. We plan to add the "registered list" on the side, so it must be in block format.

#### 1. Module block \(Blocks\) setting

1. First add block settings in xoops\_version.php, such as:

   ```text
   //---區塊設定---//
   $modversion['blocks']                    = array();
   $i                                       = 1;
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['file']        = "list_signup.php";
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['name']        = _MI_TAD_SIGNUP_LIST;
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['description'] = _MI_TAD_SIGNUP_LIST_DESC;
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['show_func']   = "list_signup";
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['template']    = "list_signup.tpl";
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['edit_func']   = "list_signup_edit";
   $modversion['blocks'][$i]['options']     = "1|1";
   ```

2. Create a file in the blocks directory according to the setting value of file, such as blocks/list\_signup.php, which must contain at least one main function.

   ```text
   <?php
   //區塊主函數：列出所報者
   function list_signup($options)
   {

   }
   ```

3. The name of the main function must be the same as the show\_func setting in xoops\_version.php, for example: list\_signup.
4. The purpose of the main function is only to grab data from the database and send it to the block template, so the template name needs to be set in the template item, and the template is placed under "templates/blocks", such as templates/blocks/list\_signup.tpl.
5. Edit function is not necessary, if you want to set the value in the block, you can set an edit\_func
6. If the language is useful in the settings, please remember to add it to language/tchinese\_utf8/modinfo.php, such as:

   ```text
   define("_MI_TAD_SIGNUP_LIST", "報名名單");
   define("_MI_TAD_SIGNUP_LIST_DESC", "報名名單");
   ```

7. If there is an editing function, there must be $options to set the default value. Please use "\|" to separate the default value.
8. If there is a link in the block, please note that you must use "absolute location", the URL constant: XOOPS\_URL, if it is in the template, you need to use &lt;{$xoops\_url}&gt; to make the absolute path
9. If the execution is wrong, it is not recommended to use redirect\_header to redirect, directly die\(\) or ignore it.
10. Just return the final content result, which can be an array or a single value, with any variable name.

#### 2. Create a block template file

1. Create a template file in templates/blocks according to the value of template in xoops\_version.php, such as: list\_signup.tpl
2. The template file of the block always receives the template tag &lt;{$block}&gt;, regardless of the variable name returned by the display function.

   ```text
   <{$block}>
   ```

3. The complete link in the template, such as: &lt;{$xoops\_url}&gt;/modules/tad\_ebook/index.php?ebook\_sn=&lt;{$ebook.honor\_sn}&gt;
4. Then update the module and you can start using the block!

#### Three, add block editing interface function

1. We add a block editing interface function to the original block program blocks/list\_signup.php. The purpose is to generate a block setting interface, the name must be consistent with edit\_func.

   ```text
   //區塊編輯函數
   function list_signup_edit($options)
   {

   }
   ```

2. The editing interface function is actually just a web form, but &lt;form&gt;&lt;/form&gt; is not needed.
3. The default value of the form field is the options setting value in xoops\_version.php. The default value is passed and used through the $options array.

#### Fourth, modify the display function

1. To use the setting value of the block, you can directly introduce the $options parameter, such as: $options\[0\]
2. The options setting value in xoops\_version.php is separated according to "\|", the first value is $options\[0\], the second value is $options\[1\] and so on.
3. Please apply $options\[0\] and $options\[1\] where they should be used.
4. **Finally, remember to update the module** and edit the block to see the effect.

